# Speak ill, but speak of me: The impact of Tweets on the stock price of Vale during the Mariana Dam Disaster 
Authors: Fernando Thompson, Maria Augusta XXX e Nicholas Martins 
### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Abstract

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In 2015, Vale, one of the largest mining companies in the world was affected by an accident at one of its facilities in the county of Mariana in Minas Gerais, Brazil. This dam disaster had worldwide repercussions and caused massive social network buzz. The accident also had a strong industry-wide effect in the mining sector. Given the enormous activity on social networks due to the accident, this work chose to use in this analysis, data from Twitter. For the principal component analysis input, numerical matrices containing a sample of 3500 historical tweets, divided into two periods: bearish trend Vale's shares, and the bullish trend. From the principal component analysis, and later grouping by k-means, it was observed that in 76.4% of the variation that occurs between 11/5/2015 to 02/02/2016, (bearish trend), the engagement rate indicator in social networks had an inverse relationship with the stock performance from mining companies. In 56% of the variation that occurred between 02/02/2016 to 03/03/2016 (bullish trend), two indicators from social networks: engagement and impressions, maintained inverse relation to the stocks analyzed. This correlation between the indicators for both bearish and bullish trends were similar, but more pronounced in the period in which Vale's shares suffered negative impacts from the accident and fell. In summary, there is a strong correlation in the sampled dataset between the performance of stocks studied and Twitter activity during the trends of decline and rise.
